# Project: Data Lake
## Introduction

The aim of this project is to help a music streaming startup called Sparkify, move their data warehouse to a data lake. The company has grown its user base and song database, and as a result, wants to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will enable their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to.

## Project Description

The project requires building an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3 using Spark and data lakes. The goal is to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. The Spark process will be deployed on a cluster using AWS. To test the database and ETL pipeline, queries will be given by the analytics team from Sparkify, and the results compared with the expected results.


## Project Datasets
Two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month.

## Files
dl.cfg: Configuration file that contains AWS credentials.
etl.py: Python script that extracts data from S3, processes the data into analytics tables using Spark, and loads them back into S3.
## How to Run
Update dl.cfg file with your AWS credentials and S3 input/output file path.
Run etl.py script using the command python etl.py in the terminal.
Dimensional Tables
The ETL pipeline creates five dimensional tables:

- songplays
- users
- songs
- artists
- time
## Technologies Used
- Python
- Apache Spark
- Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3
# References
- Udacity's Data Engineering Nanodegree Program
- Apache Spark documentation
- Amazon Web Services (AWS) documentation